# ImageColorizer
Image Colorization using GAN's

The tradition of preserving and transferring knowledge from one generation to the next generationexists even today. Most of the times this knowledge happens to be in the form of visuals, images ofcertain old sculptures, scriptures etc. Quality of these images is directly influenced by the technologyavailable during these generations. To overcome this problem and to minimize the loss of this vitalvisual information, we propose an Artificially Intelligent software able to convert the existing lowquality and low resolution images into high quality and high resolution ones. Many technologies totransform low quality images into high quality ones currently exist. We limit the scope of our project towork only with black and white images, increase the resolution and colorize them. Our objective is toextend the currently existing state of art to obtain more accurate results.The application of Artificial Intelligence that we plan to implement for this project is GenerativeAdversarial Networks. Generative Adversarial Networks are based on the adversarial concept of twoAI agents or algorithms working together, with one trying to better the results produced by other one.We intend to use the transfer learning concept of Machine Learning, i.e., loading a pre-trained GANnetwork and re-training it again with our input and selectively freezing some layers in the network.Most of the recent developments deal either with the colorization of image or increasing the resolutionof image. We propose to integrate these parts of improving the image resolution and colorizing it later. The history of using AI to colorize photos can be traced back to early 2000’s. In 2002, Welsh et al. [1]proposed an algorithm to colorize photos through texture synthesis. It was done by matching theparameters of luminance and texture between a colored image and the black and white (greyscale)image to be colorized. Later in 2004, an alternative formulation was proposed by Levin et al.[2]. Thisformulation followed a reverse approach, wherein a cost function was penalized based on the differencebetween each pixel and weighted average of its neighboring pixels. According to [4] in 2014,Goodfellow et al.[3] proposed a new generative model called as Generative Adversarial Networks. AGAN is composed of two smaller networks known as a generator and a discriminator. Generator’s taskis produce images that are indistinguishable from the real images. Discriminator’s task is to classifywhether the image came from generator’s model distribution or the original data distribution. Boththese networks are trained simultaneously until the generator is able to consistently produce results thatthe discriminator cannot classify.To summarize, we propose an AI based software capable of transforming the low resolution greyscaleimages into high resolution colored images.


## REFERENCES :

1. Tomihisa Welsh, Michael Ashikhmin, and Klaus Mueller. Transferring color to greyscale images. InACM TOG, volume 21, pages 277–280, 2002.

2. Anat Levin, Dani Lischinski, and Yair Weiss. Colorization using optimization. In ACM transactionson graphics (tog), volume 23, pages 689–694. ACM, 2004.

3. Ian Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing Xu, David Warde-Farley, Sherjil Ozair,Aaron Courville, and Yoshua Bengio. Generative adversarial nets.

4. Image Colorization using Generative Adversarial Networks by Kamyar Nazeri, Eric Ng, and MehranEbrahimi.
